README.md, before:

# rimo

## Description

Rimo contains tools that helps creating a *masking.yaml* for [PIMO](https://github.com/CGI-FR/PIMO).
It works as a 6 steps process :
![rimo steps](.github/img/rimo_steps.png "rimo steps")

1. `gather` : orchestrate LINO to extract table of the database into a *.jsonl* file
2. `analyse` : extract meaningful information on database from *.jsonl*
3. `export` : dump data into an *Excel* file which serves as a configuration means
4. `import` : load, store and verify inputted data of the *Excel* file into a *.yaml* file
5. `build` : create a *pimo_masking.yaml* from *.yaml*
6. `script` : build a bash script to execute pipeline for PIMO

<!-- ## Installation
`rimo` command line work in relative project's directory, like `git` or `docker` -->

## Usage

### `rimo analyser`

```console
// to be defined
```

- `input` : path to a directory or file containing to *jsonl* files
- `output` : optional path to output. If none, same name and directory as input. If directory, same name as input.

**input.jsonl** is a JSON single line that contains a pair of (column_name, value) for every row of the database table

**output.yaml** contain various metrics on table's columns and a small default configuration for PIMO. An example can be found in *src/unit_test/testcase_output.yaml*.

### `rimo exporter`

```console
// to be defined
```

- `input` : path to a *yaml* file
- `output` : optional path to output. If none, same name and directory as input. If directory, same name as input.

**input.yaml** contains information on database generated by `analyser`

**output.xlsx** is an Excel file where input is dumped.

## Tests

To implement : Venom tests

## Project status

In active development

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
`testcase_data.jsonl` in *tests/data* is generated using Faker and does contain any real information.

## License

TODO

Commit message:

6-add-gplv3-licence (#9)
* Create license.md

* Update and rename license.md to LICENSE.md

* Update LICENSE.md

* Added GPLv3 Licence disclaimer at top of Go files.

* feat: added GPL v3 in README

README.md, after:

# rimo

## Description

Rimo contains a series of tools that helps to create a *masking.yaml* for [PIMO](https://github.com/CGI-FR/PIMO).
<!-- It works as a 6 steps process : -->
<!-- ![rimo steps](.github/img/rimo_steps.png "rimo steps") -->

<!-- 1. `analyse` : extract meaningful information on database from *.jsonl* -->

<!-- ## Installation
`rimo` command line work in relative project's directory, like `git` or `docker` -->

## Usage

### `rimo analyse`

```console
rimo analyse input output
```

- `input` : path to a directory containing to *jsonl* files
- `output` : path to a directory where output the *.yaml* file

**input.jsonl** is a JSON single line that contains a pair of (column_name, value) for every row of the database table

**output.yaml** contain various metrics on table's columns and a small default configuration for PIMO. An example can be found in *src/unit_test/testcase_output.yaml*.

### `rimo jsonschema`

Generate the json schema of rimo.

## Tests

To run tests execute `neon test-int`.

## Project status

In active development

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.
`testcase_data.jsonl` in *tests/data* is generated using Faker and does contain any real information.

## License

Copyright (C) 2023 CGI France

PIMO is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

PIMO is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
 along with PIMO.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
